# CorePHP
What is OOPs? Object Oriented is an approach to software development that models application around real world objects such as employees, cars, bank accounts, etc. A class defines the properties and methods of a real world object. An object is an occurrence of a class. The three basic components of object orientation are;  Object oriented analysis – functionality of the system Object oriented designing – architecture of the system Object oriented programming – implementation of the application Object Oriented Programming Principles The three major principles of OOP are;  Encapsulation – this is concerned with hiding the implementation details and only exposing the methods. The main purpose of encapsulation is to; Reduce software development complexity – by hiding the implementation details and only exposing the operations, using a class becomes easy. Protect the internal state of an object – access to the class variables is via methods such as get and set, this makes the class flexible and easy to maintain. The internal implementation of the class can be changed without worrying about breaking the code that uses the class. Inheritance – this is concerned with the relationship between classes. The relationship takes the form of a parent and child. The child uses the methods defined in the parent class. The main purpose of inheritance is; Re-usability– a number of children, can inherit from the same parent. This is very useful when we have to provide common functionality such as adding, updating and deleting data from the database. Polymorphism – this is concerned with having a single form but many different implementation ways. The main purpose of polymorphism is; Simplify maintaining applications and making them more extendable. OOPs Concepts in PHP PHP is an object oriented scripting language; it supports all of the above principles. The above principles are achieved via;  Encapsulation - via the use of “get” and “set” methods etc. Inheritance - via the use of extends keyword Polymorphism - via the use of implements keyword Now that we have the basic knowledge of OOP and how it is supported in PHP, let us look at examples that implement the above principles
